REMOTE WORKING NOTES

Non-performers don't survive in ROWE environment whereas they might do fine going into the office and not performing. Taking some direction and talking about working alot, but without results. 

Isn't there something wrong with the way we look at work if this is true?

The fact that non-performers are fine if they come in. The implication: we don't know how to manage work so we manage peoples time. Another implication: you don't know how to focus as a company -- one of the areas of biggest waste. At a macro level a manager might be wasting 85% of the effort then expect/pressure devs to work lots of overtime -- essentially making things worse.  

You know how mobile-first allowed us to focus on the truely essential parts of the app, we need to focus the results first and the ability to perform remote work.  Demo or die. 

The mind confuses talking with doing. Leads to a mindset where you want to have everything solved by talking. Waiting for someone to tell you what to do.

Benefits from study
    Lower attrition rates
    Savings $1,900 per employee 
    Increased productivity by 13.5%; equivalent of extra day of work for everyone
    Shorter breaks and fewer sick days; took less time off

Risks
    Jepardize cohesion of your team. Although I find there to be less drama. Scrum and you have at least one meeting per week where anybody can say anything

What is needed?
    Deep work environment

What can you do?

The problem: managers value presense over performance.

This is really about two things: remote working and result-oriented.

Story
References
http://ideas.ted.com/why-working-from-home-should-be-standard-practice/amp/?lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_flagship3_feed%3B5OFKw8uqSw2TzYKq1qPLeA%3D%3D

https://www.inc.com/brian-de-haaff/3-ways-remote-workers-outperform-office-workers.html


Notes: Remote by Jason Fried

30 minutes + 15 minutes getting to car and to office
300 - 400 hrs per year

Took 400 hrs to build base camp

Is the companies goal to have everyone sit in an assigned seat for an assigned number of hours.

The stronger the culture: the less supervision and training needed.

The best cultures derive from actions people actually take not that they write about in a mission statement. New people see how decisions are made. Problems solved.  

You can't get an answer the second you need it whether you need it immediately or not. Arrogant.

Not everything is equally important. Once you grasp that you are truely on the path to enlightenment. 

80% of questions are probably not time sensitive at all.
15% can be dealt with chat. 3 minutes in chat vs 15.
5% telephone

AFA: encourages due to disasters; insurance; workers that do not work remotely are encouraged to do so once per month for practices so that if a disaster occurss


personal distasters happen often; plumbing; dental; sick; a cold; 

The further you are away from meetings and managers, the more work you get done.

What is wrong with M&M?
Nothing intrisincly; what is wrong is how often they are applied; more meetings;

when meetings are the norm, the become overused. meetings should be like salt, sprinkled carefully.

managers drum up busy work for others and themselves. they're good at it.



